# EMD-LSTM-MLP
The current speed of technological developments is leading towards extraction of renewable sources of energy. Thus wind energy has been given an increased attention as it is clean and economical. However, the dependency of wind on environmental parameters makes it highly intermittent in nature. This dependency therefore makes the application and planning of wind energy a challenging task. Therefore there is a need to build up an adaptive, robust model which taken into consideration those parameters and helps reduce the forecasting errors. This work proposes empirical mode decomposition (EMD) based deep learning approach which clubs the EMD approach with the multi layer perceptron (MLP) network and with the long short term memory network (LSTM). This combination of EMD algorithm with LSTM and MLP networks help in mitigating the non linearity of the wind power curve. It therefore helps in estimation of wind energy for the given time duration with increased accuracy. The wind time series signal is broken down into many IMFs using the EMD algorithm. Then, a MLP and LSTM model is separately trained on individual IMF’s so extracted. In the end, the predictions results of all IMF’s are merged together by using ensemble approach to obtain an aggregated output of wind energy for short term forecasting. The proposed hybrid EMD model is evaluated on wind energy dataset of Adelaide city. It was concluded that the proposed EMD hybrid model outperformed the other non EMD based models in terms of accuracy of prediction.
